Let's now talk about an amazing
asynchronous JavaScript feature called async/await.
So promises has made our code a lot better already
but we can still do better.
So instead of consuming promises, with the then method,
which still makes us use all these callback functions,
we can use something called async/await.
That is a new feature introduced to JavaScript in ES8,
which will make our lives a lot easier.
So usually when we write code,
we're gonna be consuming promises all the time,
but usually not producing them so much.
And so, async/await makes that a lot easier to do.
Now in order to use async/await,
we need to create a so-called async function.
So let's actually comment out this part here,
so that we don't entirely lose it, in case
you want to keep it here as a reference or something.
So getDogPic is the function that we're gonna write.
And now we need to mark this function
as an asynchronous function.
So we use async here,
and then create the function like we normally do.
So this async keyword here simply means
that this is a special function that is asynchronous.
So basically, one that keeps running in the background
while performing the code that's in it,
while the rest of the code keeps running in the Event Loop.
So these asynchronous functions will do asynchronous work
without ever blocking the Event Loop, okay?
This async function will also
automatically return a Promise.
But more on that a bit later in this video.
For now what's really important to know
is inside an async function we can always have
one or more await expressions
and this is how they work.
So we use await and then the Promise here.
So let's start with this one, okay?
And then we can save the result of that into a variable.
In this case, data.
Okay, and so this here will then be the same
as having this piece of code.
So let's see what happens here.
So this await here will basically stop the code
from running at this point until this Promise is resolved.
Now if the Promise is fulfilled,
which remember means that it was successful,
then the value of the await expression
is the resolved value of the Promise,
which is then finally assigned to the data variable, okay?
So instead of having the Promise
and then the then method on it,
which then gets the data as an argument.
With async/await it's much simpler.
All we do is to basically stop the code from running
at this Promise here, wait until it comes back
with its value and then store that value into a variable.
And like this the code is even easier
to understand than it was before.
And that is the whole point of async/await:
it's to make our code look more like synchronous code
while being in fact still asynchronous
behind the scenes, okay?
So let's keep going with this and just copy the pieces
from this example before into the new one, okay?
So before, we had our Promise then we had our then handler
and then we logged the data to the console.
So that's exactly what we have,
simply in a different way here.
So we get our data stored into the variable
and then log it here.
Next up, we then get the dog image from the API.
So we have the res variable, so that will be this one.
So again, the result of the then handler
and we await this Promise here to come back with the data.
I hope this is starting to make sense now.
So after that, we log this to the console,
so the result of that API call.
And then finally, we use our last Promise
to write that string to a file.
So that is this Promise here,
and this one does not resolve any meaningful value.
And so we don't even need to store anything into a variable.
All we do is to stop the code here
until that writing process is finished.
And then log to the console
this string.
So if you compare this code with what we had before
well that looks a lot cleaner
and a lot easier to understand, doesn't it?
Now, in order to make this work all we have to do
is to actually call this function here.
Give it a save and indeed it still works.
So we still get our result.
Everything still works the same.
So that's amazing, right?
Just one last thing that we need to do here
is our error handling.
Because right now, we're not handling errors anywhere right?
So down here used the catch method,
but right now, we cannot really
attach that anywhere, could we?
So instead, what we do here
is to use something called try-catch.
And actually that has nothing to do with async/await,
it's a standard JavaScript feature.
So let me show you how it works.
So we basically wrap all our code into a try block.
So basically the code will try
to execute whatever is in here.
And then we also need a catch block,
which will have access to an error if there is one.
So if there happens an error in this block here,
it will immediately exit this block,
this try block here, so this one.
And immediately go into the catch block,
and will give us access to the error
that happened in the try block.
So now, all we have to do is to take this piece of code
for this console log, put it here,
give it a save and now it works.
Just to cause an error now,
let's change this one here again.
And indeed, I could not find that file.
So this Promise here rejected, right?
So this Promise, it was rejected and so there was an error
and right away it got into the catch block
and then logged this error into the console.
Put it back.
And now indeed, it works again.
Okay, so that is how async/await works.
So remember we can only use await
if it's inside an async function.
That's why it's always called together,
so always async slash await.
Because these two features, they belong closely together.
So just to quickly recap,
async/await allows us to instead of having
all of these then handlers
with these callback functions in them.
It allows us to make our code look more synchronous.
So all we do is to use the await keyword
in front of our Promise.
And then it will wait for that Promise
to come back with its result.
Just remember that this is what we call
syntactic sugar for promises.
So it simply makes promises look more beautiful,
but behind the scenes everything still works the same
with the Promise logic that I explained to you before.
So again, this is just to make our lives
a bit easier when coding and make our code
look a bit more like synchronous code.
So this is how we implement async/await.
In the next video we will learn
a bit more about how async functions actually work.